In this lesson, we learn about eclipse idea and also learn how we can install and configure it.
So what's his eclipse idea?
Eclipse is an integrated development environment using computer programming.
Eclipse is written mostly in Java and its primary use is for developing Java applications, but it may
also be used to develop applications in other programming languages.
Eclipse Software Development Kit, also known as the SDK, is a free and open source software released
under the terms of the Eclipse public license.
So here is a screenshot of Eclipse.
It's where we can write our code, where we can create our projects and arrange the folders and files.
It's where we can debug if we come across code errors.
It's where our code is compiled and it's also where we execute our code to run.
So let's download and install what clips idea.
So before we begin downloading and installing Eclipse, there's an important point I need to share.
So when you come to take this course, you may find there's later versions of the clips available.
So you need to make sure that the version of clips that you download and install supports Java version
11.
And you can do this by searching for Eclipse.
Install Wiki in a search engine and the first result should be to wiki don't eclipse the org.
And if we click that link, it should take you to the following page.
So at the time of record in Eclipse version 4.18 was the latest version.
And these are all the previous versions that were available at the time.
If I click on that later version, it will show me some details of what Java version is supported.
So if we look at Eclipse 4.18, you'll see that a Java 11 or newer JRA or JDK is required.
So if you come to this page and there's later versions available, please make sure you install a version
of Eclipse that supports this version of Java.
So let's begin downloading and install in eclipse idea.
So I'm going to open up a web browser and in a search engine I'm going to type eclipse into a download.
You should then be given results similar to what's shown.
So this first one is to the eclipse, the org website.
And if I click it, it should take me to the eclipse download page.
So this is the download page and you can see that in the left hand corner there is a get eclipse idea
two 2012 downloads, which is the latest version available to me.
This may be different from when you come on this screen, if you're taking this lecture at a later date.
So I can quite simply select that download button and that will begin the download process of Eclipse.
Otherwise I can select this download Packages button and this will take you to another download page
which breaks down the different packages available and you can see on the more download section as the
older versions of Eclipse are available to download.
So I'm going to select this Eclipse 2020 12, which is the latest version available to me.
And you can see there's different download options available based on your operating system.
So as I'm using Windows, I'm going to click the Windows link and then I'm going to select the download
button.
Once pressed, this will start the download process and I'm going to pause this video here until that
completes.
So now that Eclipse has finished downloading, I've gone to my downloads folder where you should see
the Eclipse Installer for double click this.
This should start the installation wizard.
So this can take a moment to open based on the speed of your machine.
But you should eventually be presented with the following panel.
And as you can see, there are a number of different installer options that we can select.
So the version that we need should be right at the top.
And it's called eclipse idea.
The Java developers, if we select that, it should then take us to the following panel.
So you'll notice that this panel references a Java version.
You can see Java 11 plus VM, which stands for Virtual Machine.
And you can see that there is a path that is being pre-populated and it references the resources folder.
JDK 11 .0.2 And this is the version of the JDK that we've installed and is inside our resources folder
on our desktop.
So this is the version we want to use.
If I click on the dropdown menu, you'll see that there's other versions of the geography that we can
select, which comes bundled with Eclipse, but we want to use the version that we've set on our system.
So everything else on this panel can remain the same.
So all we need to do is keep the install button and the installation should begin once we accept the
license agreement by clicking on the Accept Now button.
So I'm going to pause this video until this installation has completed.
So once the installation is complete, you should see a launch button.
And if you look on my desktop, you will also see that there is an eclipse icon there.
So if I select this launch button, you should then be presented the following panel.
So Eclipse is asking for a workspace directory.
So this is going to be a directory that stores our preferences and development artifacts.
So I'm going to leave this as the default location for this demonstration in future videos.
I'll be changing our workspace location so that our projects are stored elsewhere.
So I'm going to click the launch button, which would then start Eclipse.
So this is our first view of eclipse.
And you can see on the left hand window there is a package Explorer panel.
So this panel will display our projects and all our classes.
In the next lecture we begin crates in our first Java project and crates in our first Java class would
explore Eclipse in more detail in later lectures.
Thank you for watching.